let's get right to the point I am NOT
going to repeat any of the information
or argumentation that I have already
offered on this YouTube channel in
videos such as the ones you see on the
right hand side of the screen right now
what I am gonna do is confront you with
the reality of what akathisia is in the
human flesh and you will understand
immediately why it is that someone like
Jordan Peterson would be driven to the
brink of suicide when the psychiatric
medications he's been taking make it
impossible for him to sleep impossible
for him to walk they make it impossible
for him to sit at a computer and type at
a keyboard without assistance you will
see what this mysterious symptom
akathisia
looks like and still still I try very
very still
[Music]
this is what gets frustrating seeing
videos and things that I like to do
mixed among the Murrah things that
require fine motor skills and feel very
tense day in in my chest it's it's just
very bizarre the misery and hopelessness
of that condition interrupting your
daily life interrupting your ability to
walk talk sleep type at a computer or
play a keyboard if you're a musician the
misery of that constant contortion
tension interruption of your activities
is made much worse by the awareness that
the misery is not caused by a physical
ailment it's not caused by a car
accident that damaged your nervous
system it's not caused by contracting a
disease from a mosquito like malaria no
it's caused by brain damage and the
brain damage or experiencing is because
of [ __ ] advice from [ __ ] artists
like Jordan Pearson himself who spent
his whole life recommending that his
patients get on antidepressants half the
time I spend with my clients who are
depressed is often the two years long
attempt to get them to tentatively try
an antidepressant who spent his whole
life going on broadcast television and
endorsing
same drugs that cause this same
side-effect SSRI antidepressants I take
serotonin reuptake inhibitor which is
SSR yes it's like Prozac
I don't take Prozac but it's similar to
that and I also take a drug called
wellbutrin I'm not totally oh do you
basically and knowing that you're
experiencing these symptoms as a side
effect of that drug and the
misconceptions still prevalent among the
general public and among medical
practitioners misconceptions that have
already been debunked as pseudoscience
look at this very simple diagram many
many medications legal and illegal or on
the left side of that chart okay going
back to World War one the military did
research on cocaine you may think of
cocaine only in terms of its proven harm
and the harm is very real the danger is
very real don't do cocaine I'm not pro
cocaine I'm anti cocaine but it is in
fact a drug that falls on the left-hand
side of this very simple diagram because
there are medical benefits you can use
cocaine as a painkiller and in the type
of extreme scenarios that the military
has to be prepared for that's the sort
of thing they need to research you can
use cocaine as an appetite suppressant
and to achieve endurance if you have men
who are exhausted starving and injured
but who must climb over a mountain range
in the next 24 hours in which to survive
there are in fact arguments for the
application of cocaine in the same way
that the military uses so-called pep
pills
I am feta means and what have you so
that a pilot flying an aircraft has a
better chance of survival in a scenario
where he's had no choice he's had to fly
a plane maybe for 18 hours 24 hours
continuously without sleeping all right
it's bad there's harm but there's also a
benefit okay illegal steroid use there
is very real proven harm from steroid
use don't do steroids don't do them it's
bad I'm not pro but legal drug I'm not
in favor of any of this stuff okay
however there has been scientific
research done into the benefits of
steroid use also I here means
specifically the type of steroids used
as performance-enhancing drugs some of
those same steroids that are used
illegally by bodybuilders and athletes
some of them are given to patients who
are dying of HIV AIDS patients who are
slowly dying of wasting disorders
diseases that cause you to waste away
including HIV AIDS and they say hey look
this person has HIV AIDS they may only
live for another five years and we can
really improve their quality of life by
giving them performance-enhancing drugs
drugs that are the same drug as steroids
used by athletes and they live a better
life for those five years or ten years
and in general yes these drugs are also
harming them but in that scenario the
benefit is greater than the harm and
that's the sort of thing we have to
consider right I have already made so
many videos discussing the peer-reviewed
proven science that SSRI antidepressant
drugs do not have a proven benefit they
don't and if you are skeptical about the
books and articles that I have cited the
experts who dedicated decades of their
lives to researching this whom I have
quoted if you are skeptical of that you
still have to concede the point that
even if some medical doctors claim that
there is a benefit
that claim has been unbelievably
difficult for them to demonstrate or
prove they have no proof they can appeal
to such as the massive palpable body of
evidence that there is a benefit from
using steroids performance and drugs
that there is a benefit for example from
women using the birth control pill even
though we all have to admit the birth
control pill female hormonal
contraceptive it also does harm there
are a lot of negative side effects but
there's both a proven medical benefit
and not okay
the so-called benefits of
antidepressants have never been proven
in terms of mechanistic or ideological
metals medical science in the way that
steroids and the birth control pill that
those have really been proven okay
there's evidence of benefit for those
other drugs there is no proven benefit
for SSRI drugs and on the contrary study
after study has been debunked as nothing
but a placebo effect or an enhanced
placebo effect but the harm is real and
Jordan Peterson went through his whole
life recommending that others sign up
for this terrible debunked pseudo
scientific psychiatric treatment and now
he is himself suffering the terrible
consequences some of the most terrible
side effects that you can get from years
of emotional dependency on psychiatric
drugs half the time I spend with my
clients who are depressed is often the
two years long attempt to get them to
tentatively try an antidepressant
because they're so guilty that they're
relying on an external crutch to sort
out their lives that they can't even
tolerate it but you know I say well look
man what if you had diabetes you know
I'm gonna take your insulin it's like
try it
for God's sake you'll know in a month
and you just stop if it doesn't work if
you look at the published trials you'll
find that three out of four of them show
a significant benefit of drug versus
placebo
if you look at the unpublished trials
that shrinks 12% now we had the
published trials the unpublished trials
we put them all together we did the same
kind of analysis that we did before and
we get this nice healthy response on
average to get being given the
antidepressant drug and of an even
bigger response
I'm Lucy Bowe now it's a placebo
response not Sasebo effect but we know
that that counts for relatively little
the the the spontaneous remission the
natural history the placebo response is
now accounted for eighty-two percent of
the response to the active drug and the
difference between drug and approval is
less than two points on the Hamilton
scale now the Hamilton scale can you can
have scores ranging from zero to fifty
three points you can get a six point
difference just by changes in sleep
patterns with no changes in any other
symptom of depression that's a small
difference and you don't have to take my
word for it because there's an
organization in England called the
National Institute of Health and
Clinical Excellence the acronym is nice
and they're very nice organization what
they do is to set treatment guidelines
for the National Health Service and in
revising their treatment guidelines they
have established a criteria for clinical
significance for saying that a drug is
not only statistically but see
clinically better than a placebo and
that's a three point difference on the
Hamilton depression scale or an effect
size of 0.5 and as you see that comes
nowhere close so we went back to our
data and we look at looked at what drugs
were the patients in these studies ah
somewhere on tricyclics somewhere on us
as our eyes somewhere on other
antidepressants
we did mi a lo inhibitors and things
like that and we found there were some
other drugs in there too there was some
studies that were looking at things like
barbiturates and benzodiazepine and
lithium for not for unipolar depression
and thyroid medications for people
without a thyroid disorder unipolar
depressed patients and in case after
case three-quarters of the response of
the drug was duplicated by placebo it
didn't matter whether was a tri cyclic
an SSRI some other antidepressant or
even something that's not conventionally
considered an antidepressant and there's
yet another drug that we should take
into account that I don't have up here
and that is TNF T how many of you have
heard of TNF t very few TNF teen is a
drug that is has been approved by French
regulators and it is marketed in France
and a number of other countries as an
antidepressant
the most common antidepressants these
days are SSRIs selective serotonin
reuptake inhibitors TNF teen is an SSR
II it's a selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitor is are supposed to do instead
of inhibiting the reuptake so that
there's more serotonin available in the
synapses it's supposed to enhance
reuptake so that there's less serotonin
available in the synapses were there any
truth to the serotonin theory of
depression and I don't know a
responsible researcher in the area that
still contends there is it's only in
marketing these they'll see that talked
about were there any truth to that
SSRIs art should not help people recover
from depression it ought to make them
depressed
here's what it does in head-to-head
trials against both SSRIs and imipramine
and tricyclics so what do you call pills
the effects of which are independent of
their chemical composition and they
should be taken with a grain of salt
[Music]